All right welcome back.
So we've seen how to connect to a database slush create a new one the very first time but every other
time connect to it.
And also how to create a single table.
Now we're going to focus on inserting data into those tables.
And the first thing I could show you is like the most basic kind of dumb way of doing it I say dumb
because if you were just to insert a hard coded line of sequel which we totally can do it kind of defeats
the purpose of using Python.
Why not just write that single line of sequel as sequel.
Why go through python.
But we could insert something so let's let's do an insert into friend.
This isn't going to work of course on its own but let's say I'm writing a single query to insert a new
friend and I'm going to go with a default order so values and then we'll need to have.
We've got to pay attention to quotes of course.
I'm going to do single quotes and then double quotes around the entire thing.
I hate that.
There we go.
So single quotes first name will be.
This is how you spell Merryweather.
Messed up the quotes again like that.
Meriwether Lewis.
And then we are seven out of 10 friends.
So here is a line of sequel on its own and it's not going to do anything for me.
I'm going to make it a variable.
So I'm going to call it insert query.
Now this line is getting kind of long.
So what you will see people do is triple quotes like this and then we can break it up.
Usually people break it up on the values line.
So something like that.
I'm also going to comment out this.
We don't need to create the table again and I don't know is he going to like my single quotes inside
of the triple quotes.
We will see.
And then we'll do a c.
Execute that.
Insert queery.
So again this will just insert a single hard coded line or a single hardcoded friend.
Get rid of this random P at the end and let's see if it works.
So Python 3 friends.
OK well that's a problem because I misspelled queery.
Well Martin it looks like it worked.
Let's see.
Let's do a select star from friends.
All right so we have a new friend in there.
Cool.
So that works.
But as I mentioned you probably wouldn't use Python for this.
Usually you have some sort of dynamic data.
So some uses maybe you have like a file of 10000.
I don't know things from a CSFB file and you want to convert it into your siecle database.
Maybe you have a list of email addresses that you stole from somewhere and you're trying to get it into
your sequel database you want to iterate over the list.
You would do that with Python and then for each one insert except you would have variables here.
Or often you have an application with a form or some sort of user input where data is coming in that
you are then inserting into your database.
So let's let's sort of imagine that that's what's going on for us.
Let's imagine that we have form data let's just say we're doing first name and last name actually let's
just do first name honestly and we have a variable called first and it's going to be I don't know Dana
that's our friend we're inserting we don't have any restrictions that says we have to have a first name
last name and closeness.
So just for the sake of time I'm only doing first so you might think well the best way to do that if
I have a variable coming in again or imagine we don't know what this is.
It's not up to us we just know there's a variable called First it's coming from a form maybe even say
form first.
I could do something like this.
I could do an F string.
And this is not a good idea.
I'll explain why in a bit when you have a video actually on sequel injection.
Basically you don't want to be inserting random data variables into your code or into your sequel statements
on your own.
Of course that's something you need to do a lot is have your data added in have variables added into
a sequel query.
But I'm going to show you the actual way of doing it.
And again I mean I have a video explaining why this is problematic and and what it looks like but what
we could do is something like this.
Insert into friends and then values.
One need to specify we're only inserting first name values and then instead of just typing whatever
we're going to type in here like Todd I would do f string interpellation and then say form First there
is an important thing to note this on its own is not going to work because then our query would look
like this.
At the end of the day when it's all said and done that's not going to work.
We need quotes around it for sequel.
So we have to add in additional quotes and this gets really annoying to manage.
This is one of the reasons why it's not a good idea to do an F string and to manually put your own data
in there but this might seem like a good idea.
So let's try it.
Let's just make a variable again called queery and then do see that execute queery.
And if all goes well hopefully it will.
This should work.
Let's open it up again.
Select star from friends.
OK so we have two friends and there Dana only has a first name but that's fine.
So I mentioned this is not a good way of doing it.
So the better way of doing this if you have some variables that you need to interpolate that you need
to add in to a query instead of this.
I'm going to keep this but I'm going to label it as bad
don't do this and then the better way I'll do it on here.
A better way is going to be.
Let's say we have our same form data form first equals this time it's Mary Todd.
I don't even know if that first name Mary middle name Todd or if it's all first name Mary Dasch Todd
or hyphen Todd.
What we do is instead writer queery but we add question marks here for every value that we want to be
added in.
So I think to make more sense if I copy this say queery equals insert into friends first name values
question mark.
Then when we actually execute the query we pass in a tuple containing the values that we want to be
added in.
So it's kind of silly because we only have one thing that we're inserting just the first name.
So it's annoying that we have to make it a table but we do.
Otherwise it will try and basically iterate over each character of the string.
If we do it as a tuple it will iterate over the one thing and the tuple and put the value of this at
that question mark.
It takes care of a lot of stuff for us.
The quotes sanitizes it so that no one can inject sequel.
And we can forget to so one item to also we need that comma.
Tried running it and we look at our database one more time
we now have Mary Todd in there.
So this is kind of cumbersome to do it this way with one value.
Usually this is what we would have.
So I'll keep this actually and duplicate it one more time and instead of form first let's just say form
data or data.
And this is coming from a form that looks like this.
It's already in a tuple.
So if we have Steve Irwin and we are nine out of 10 friends then we need to have three commas.
So comma 3 question marks I mean and then and here we just pass in data.
So this is more accurate more sort of.
Well first of all it's less of a headache but it's also more realistic.
You have a bunch of data together usually coming from a form it's already grouped.
And we can insert it all and it will automatically take the first thing and put it right here.
The second thing put it right here.
The third thing right here and I'm not specifying the actual column names because the order the data
is coming in matches the data the order the columns are already in.
So let's try it.
We don't need this to be an F string by the way.
Not that it really hurts and see what works.
Open or back up one more time select star from friends capitalization to the loft.
Now we have this new row Steve Irwin 9.
OK.
So that's one way of inserting what I want to show you next is how to insert in bulk.
I'll do that in the next video.
Either through a collection of items that you have you want to iterate over and insert one at a time
or how to answer them all in one go.